
Data analysis is the process of inspecting, cleansing, transforming and modeling data with the goal of descovering useful information, informing conclusion
              and supporting decision-making. The act of turning raw, messy data into useful insights by cleaning the data up, transforming it, manipulating it, and inspecting it.
              
         
Data analysis process -
                 1. Data extraction - where your data is coming from. SQL, Scrapping, File formats, consulting APIs, .....
                 2. Data Cleaning - missing values and empty data, data imputation(substitution of missing values), incorrect types,
                 incorrect or invalid values
                 3. Data wrangling -  rearrange and reshape the data for better analysis. Hierachical data, reshaping and transforming structures 
                 4. Analysis - extract patterns from data that is now clean any shape capturing trends or anomalies. Statistical analysis will be
                 fundimental in this process
                 5. Action - do something about the analysis. building mechine learning models, feature engineering, building ETL pipelines, Decision
                 making and real life tests.
  
 Dataframe shows how many rows and columns our dataframe has.
 Loc method is used to access data as well as updating it. 
 An Excel sheet is not allowed in a jupiter notebook cell. 
 Code, Markdown, Raw are the three main jupiter notebook cells.
 You can import Exel,CSV,XML files, data from API to jupiter notebook to work on. 
 
 Portfolio Exercise Steps: Extract data from database into SQL for manipulating, cleaning, and formating 
                           Clean the data for any unwanted redundant, missing, duplicate, data from different source, structral error. 
                           Merge data into Excel for more cleaning and display 
                           Present the data in a more understanding way with charts and make it interactive using slicer for better flexablity. 
                           
             
Portfolio Step By Step :
 create A DATABASE 
 create a table in database to store values 
 create multiple database to correlate with for manipulation and data presentaion  
 plan out a visual project to display the information stored in a more resourceful way. 
 created multple database to carry insitubtions data
 clean code of any redundant, unknown values, and any other errors 
