https://www.w3resource.com/sql-exercises/sql-joins-exercises.php#SQLEDITOR    => JOIN clause questions


Sub query is a select statement that is part of another sql statement. 

What is the difference between SQL and MySQL?
    SQL is primarily used to query and operate database systems.
    MYSQL allows YOU to handle, store, modity and delete data and store data in organized way.
    
What are the different subsets of SQL?
   DDL = data difinition language - allows you to perform various operations on the database such as CREATE, ALTER, AND DELETE objects. 
   DML = data manipulation language - allows you to access and manipulate data. it helps you to insert, update, dalete adn retrieve data from the database. 
   DCL = data control language - allows you to control access to the database. 
   
What do you mean by DBMS? What are its different types?
  Data Management System (DBMS) is a software application that interact with the user, applications, and the database itself to capture and analyze data.
  Two types of DBMS - Rational database management system: data stored in relations(tables). ex- MYSQL 
                    - Non-Rational database managemet system: no concept of relations, tuples and attributes. ex- MongoDB 
                    
What do you mean by table and field in SQL?
    A table has records(rows) and fields(columns) ???
    
What are joins in SQL?
   Joins clause is used to combine two or more rows to identity the relation between them. 
   
What is the difference between CHAR and VARCHAR2 datatype in SQL?
   Fundimental difference between CHAR and VARCHAR is that the CHAR data type is fixed the length, while the VARCHAR data type supports variable-lenth columns of data.
   
What is the Primary key?
A primary key in SQL is a column (or collection of columns) or a set of columns that uniquely identifies each row in the table. 
     for example- in a customers table, customer_id or any assigned column name would be refered to as the primary key
     
What are Constraints?
constraints are used to limit the type of data that can go into a table. They are used to specity rules for the data in tables. 
Some Constraints are:   NOT NULL - Ensures that a column cannot have a NULL value
                        UNIQUE - Ensures that all values in a column are different
                        PRIMARY KEY - A combination of a NOT NULL and UNIQUE. Uniquely identifies each row in a table
                        FOREIGN KEY - Prevents actions that would destroy links between tables
                        CHECK - Ensures that the values in a column satisfies a specific condition
                        DEFAULT - Sets a default value for a column if no value is specified
                        CREATE INDEX - Used to create and retrieve data from the database very quickly
                        
What is the difference between DELETE and TRUNCATE statements?
DELETE is used to delete specified rows, while TRUNCATE is used to delete all the rows from a table. 

What is a Unique key?
UNIQUE constraint ensures that all vlaues in a column are different.

What is the difference between truncate, delete, and drop?
Delete is used to delete rows from a table, truncate is used to delete all the rows from the table and free the space conatining the table, drop is used to 
       remove object from the database 
       
What is Alias in sql?
It is a temporary name assigned to the table or table column for the purpose of a particular sql query.

How to display even no. of rows in an employee table?

Display last 50% of records from the employee table?
  SELECT * FROM
    (
        SELECT TOP 50 PERCENT *

        FROM [Table]

        ORDER BY [Field] DESC
   )
   ORDER BY [Field] ASC


