
Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services over the internet.
Computing services include common IT infrastructure such as virtual machines, storage, databases, and networking.

You’ll always be responsible for:
.The information and data stored in the cloud
.Devices that are allowed to connect to your cloud (cell phones, computers, and so on)
.The accounts and identities of the people, services, and devices within your organization

The cloud provider is always responsible for:
.The physical datacenter
.The physical network
.The physical hosts

Your service model will determine responsibility for things like:
.Operating systems
.Network controls
.Applications
.Identity and infrastructure

The cloud models define the deployment type of cloud resources. The three main cloud models are: private, public, and hybrid.


Public Cloud : A public cloud is built, controlled, and maintained by a third-party cloud provider. 
           .No capital expenditures to scale up
           .Applications can be quickly provisioned and deprovisioned
           .Organizations pay only for what they use	
           .Organizations don’t have complete control over resources and security	
Private Cloud : A private cloud is a type of cloud computing infrastructure that is dedicated to a single organization. 
           .Organizations have complete control over resources and security
           .Data is not collocated with other organizations’ data	
           .Hardware must be purchased for startup and maintenance	
           .Organizations are responsible for hardware maintenance and updates	
Hybrid Cloud : A hybrid cloud is a computing environment that uses both public and private clouds in an inter-connected environment.
           .Provides the most flexibility
           .Organizations determine where to run their applications
           .Organizations control security, compliance, or legal requirements

A fourth, and increasingly likely scenario is a multi-cloud scenario. In a multi-cloud scenario, you use multiple public cloud providers.
Regardless, in a multi-cloud environment you deal with two (or more) public cloud providers and manage resources and security in both environments.

Azure Arc is a set of technologies that helps manage your cloud environment
Azure VMware Solution lets you run your VMware workloads in Azure with seamless integration and scalability.


There are two types of IT Infranstructure models, Capital expenditure (CapEX) and Operational expenditure (OpEx)
CapEx is typically a one-time, up-front expenditure to purchase or secure tangible resources.
       A new building, repaving the parking lot, building a datacenter, or buying a company vehicle are examples of CapEx.
OpEx is spending money on services or products over time. pay-as-you-go
       Renting a convention center, leasing a company vehicle, or signing up for cloud services are all examples of OpEx.

Cloud computing falls under OpEx because cloud computing operates on a consumption-based model.
   With this cosumption-based model, it has benefits including :                    
                                            .No upfront costs.
                                            .No need to purchase and manage costly infrastructure that users might not use to its fullest potential.
                                            .The ability to pay for more resources when they're needed.
                                            .The ability to stop paying for resources that are no longer needed.

Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services over the internet by using a pay-as-you-go pricing model.
You typically pay only for the cloud services you use, which helps you:
                                                                  .Plan and manage your operating costs.
                                                                  .Run your infrastructure more efficiently.
                                                                  .Scale as your business needs change.


In conclusion, cloud computing is a way to rent compute power and storage from someone else’s datacenter.
You can treat cloud resources like you would resources in your own datacenter.
However, unlike in your own datacenter, when you're done using cloud resources, you give them back. You’re billed only for what you use.

                               ---------------------------------------------------------
Availability - refer to a cloud-based service that focuses on providing high availability, or the ability for a system to remain operational and 
               accessible to users despite failures or disruptions.
Scalability - the ability to increase or decrease resources for a given workload. 
Reliability - the ability of a system to recover from failures and continue to function.
Predictability - refers to the ability to plan for and manage the performance and capacity of a cloud service or application.
  In other words, reliability is about the system being up and running, whereas predictability is about being able to predict the system performance
  and capacity usage.
Geodistribution refers to the practice of distributing data, resources, and services across multiple geographic locations.  
Disaster recovery (DR) is the process of restoring an organization's IT systems and infrastructure in the event of a disaster.
Manageability - refers to the ability to effectively manage and control the various resources and services that are deployed in a cloud environment.

                                 ---------------------------------------------------------

IaaS(Infrastructure as a service) provides virtualized computing resources, such as servers and storage, over the internet. 
      Examples of IaaS providers include Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

PaaS(Platform as a service) provides a platform for developing, running, and managing applications over the internet. 
      Examples of PaaS providers include AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Azure App Service, and Google App Engine.
      Platform as a service (PaaS) is a middle ground between renting space in a datacenter (infrastructure as a service) and paying for
         a complete and deployed solution (software as a service).     
      
SaaS(Software as a service) provides access to software applications over the internet. 
     Examples of SaaS providers include Salesforce, Microsoft Office 365, and Google G Suite.
     
  *Consumer is always responsible for the data used in the cloud computing services above. 

                                 ---------------------------------------------------------
THE CORE ARCHITECTURAL COMPONENET OF AZURE 

.The physical infrastructure for Azure starts with datacenters. 
  Conceptually, the datacenters are the same as large corporate datacenters. 
  They’re facilities with resources arranged in racks, with dedicated power, cooling, and networking infrastructure.
.A region is a geographical area on the planet that contains at least one, but potentially multiple datacenters that are nearby and networked together
  with a low-latency network. Azure intelligently assigns and controls the resources within each region to ensure workloads are appropriately balanced.
.Availability zones are physically separate datacenters within an Azure region. 
  Each availability zone is made up of one or more datacenters equipped with independent power, cooling, and networking. 
  An availability zone is set up to be an isolation boundary. If one zone goes down, the other continues working. 
  Availability zones are connected through high-speed, private fiber-optic networks.
    Availability zones are primarily for VMs, managed disks, load balancers, and SQL databases.
    Azure services that support availability zones fall into three categories:
           1. Zonal services: You pin the resource to a specific zone (for example, VMs, managed disks, IP addresses).
           2. Zone-redundant services: The platform replicates automatically across zones (for example, zone-redundant storage, SQL Database).
           3. Non-regional services: Services are always available from Azure geographies and are resilient to zone-wide outages as well as region-wide outages.

Region pair is a combination of two regions that are connected with low-latency, high-throughput network connections within 300 miles.
  These region pairs are designed to provide a high-availability and disaster recovery solution for applications and data that need to be replicated 
  across regions.
Additional advantages of region pairs:
.If an extensive Azure outage occurs, one region out of every pair is prioritized to make sure at least one is restored as quickly as possible for
    applications hosted in that region pair.
.Planned Azure updates are rolled out to paired regions one region at a time to minimize downtime and risk of application outage.
.Data continues to reside within the same geography as its pair (except for Brazil South) for tax- and law-enforcement jurisdiction purposes.

Sovereign regions in Azure are regions that are physically located within a specific country or territory and operated by a subsidiary or partner
 of Microsoft, rather than by Microsoft itself. 
 
Azure sovereign regions include:
1. US DoD Central, US Gov Virginia, US Gov Iowa and more: These regions are physical and logical network-isolated instances of Azure for U.S. government
    agencies and partners. These datacenters are operated by screened U.S. personnel and include additional compliance certifications.
2. China East, China North, and more: These regions are available through a unique partnership between Microsoft and 21Vianet, whereby Microsoft doesn't
    directly maintain the datacenters.

A resource is the basic building block of Azure. Anything you create, provision, deploy, etc. is a resource. 
    Virtual Machines (VMs), virtual networks, databases, cognitive services, etc. are all considered resources within Azure.

Some examples of how you could use management groups might be:
1. Create a hierarchy that applies a policy. You could limit VM locations to the US West Region in a group called Production. 
    This policy will inherit onto all the subscriptions that are descendants of that management group and will apply to all VMs under those subscriptions. 
    This security policy can't be altered by the resource or subscription owner, which allows for improved governance.
2. Provide user access to multiple subscriptions. By moving multiple subscriptions under a management group, you can create one Azure role-based access
    control (Azure RBAC) assignment on the management group. Assigning Azure RBAC at the management group level means that all sub-management groups, 
    subscriptions, resource groups, and resources underneath that management group would also inherit those permissions. One assignment on the management
    group can enable users to have access to everything they need instead of scripting Azure RBAC over different subscriptions.


                                 ---------------------------------------------------------
AZURE COMPUTE AND NETWORKING SERVICES                                  


VMs are an ideal choice when you need:
                                 Total control over the operating system (OS).
                                 The ability to run custom software.
                                 To use custom hosting configurations.

A virtual machine scale set is a group of identical, load-balanced virtual machines in Azure that automatically increase or decrease in number based
     on demand. This allows for easy scaling of applications and services, and enables high availability and automatic patching and updates

Availability sets are designed to ensure that VMs stagger updates and have varied power and network connectivity, 
      preventing you from losing all your VMs with a single network or power failure.

Availability sets do this by grouping VMs in two ways: update domain and fault domain - 
.Update domain: The update domain groups VMs that can be rebooted at the same time. This allows you to apply updates while knowing that only one 
           update domain grouping will be offline at a time. All of the machines in one update domain will be updated.
           An update group going through the update process is given a 30-minute time to recover before maintenance on the next update domain starts.
.Fault domain: The fault domain groups your VMs by common power source and network switch. By default, an availability set will split your VMs
            across up to three fault domains. This helps protect against a physical power or networking failure by having VMs in different fault domains
            (thus being connected to different power and networking resources).


Some common examples or use cases for virtual machines include:
-During testing and development. VMs provide a quick and easy way to create different OS and application configurations. 
           Test and development personnel can then easily delete the VMs when they no longer need them.
-When running applications in the cloud. The ability to run certain applications in the public cloud as opposed to creating a traditional infrastructure
           to run them can provide substantial economic benefits. For example, an application might need to handle fluctuations in demand. Shutting 
           down VMs when
           you don't need them or quickly starting them up to meet a sudden increase in demand means you pay only for the resources you use.
-When extending your datacenter to the cloud: An organization can extend the capabilities of its own on-premises network by creating a virtual network
           in Azure and adding VMs to that virtual network. Applications like SharePoint can then run on an Azure VM instead of running locally.
           This arrangement makes it easier or less expensive to deploy than in an on-premises environment.
-During disaster recovery: As with running certain types of applications in the cloud and extending an on-premises network to the cloud,
           you can get significant cost savings by using an IaaS-based approach to disaster recovery. If a primary datacenter fails, you can create VMs running
           on Azure to run your critical applications and then shut them down when the primary datacenter becomes operational again.

Azure Virtual Desktop is a desktop and application virtualization service that runs on the cloud. 
      It enables you to use a cloud-hosted version of Windows from any location.

Containers are a virtualization environment. Much like running multiple virtual machines on a single physical host, you can run multiple containers
           on a single physical or virtual host. Containers are designed to allow you to respond to changes on demand. 
           With containers, you can quickly restart if there's a crash or hardware interruption. One of the most popular container engines is Docker
          
Azure Container Instances offer the fastest and simplest way to run a container in Azure; without having to manage any virtual machines or adopt any 
                 additional services. Azure Container Instances are a platform as a service (PaaS) offering.

Azure Functions is a serverless compute service that enables you to run code on-demand without having to explicitly provision or manage infrastructure.
       It allows you to build and run event-driven, scaleable and highly available applications without the need for provisioning and managing servers. 

Functions can be either stateless or stateful. When they're stateless (the default), they behave as if they're restarted every time they respond
          to an event. When they're stateful (called Durable Functions), a context is passed through the function to track prior activity.


Azure virtual networks and virtual subnets enable Azure resources, such as VMs, web apps, and databases, to communicate with each other, 
             with users on the internet, and with your on-premises client computers. 

Azure virtual networks provide the following key networking capabilities:
           .Isolation and segmentation
           .Internet communications
           .Communicate between Azure resources
           .Communicate with on-premises resources
           .Route network traffic
           .Filter network traffic
           .Connect virtual networks
Azure virtual networking supports both public and private endpoints to enable communication between external or internal resources with other
    internal resources
           .Public endpoints have a public IP address and can be accessed from anywhere in the world.
           .Private endpoints exist within a virtual network and have a private IP address from within the address space of that virtual network.

You'll want to enable Azure resources to communicate securely with each other. You can do that in one of two ways:
           .Virtual networks can connect not only VMs but other Azure resources, such as the App Service Environment for Power Apps,
              Azure Kubernetes Service, and Azure virtual machine scale sets.
           .Service endpoints can connect to other Azure resource types, such as Azure SQL databases and storage accounts. 
              This approach enables you to link multiple Azure resources to virtual networks to improve security and provide optimal routing
              between resources.

Communicate with on-premises resources refers to the ability of cloud-based systems, such as Azure Functions, to securely connect and interact
              with resources that are located on a customer's own physical premises, rather than in a cloud-based environment.

There are three mechanisms for you to achieve this connectivity:
           .Point-to-site virtual private network connections are from a computer outside your organization back into your corporate network.
                In this case, the client computer initiates an encrypted VPN connection to connect to the Azure virtual network.
           .Site-to-site virtual private networks link your on-premises VPN device or gateway to the Azure VPN gateway in a virtual network.
                In effect, the devices in Azure can appear as being on the local network. The connection is encrypted and works over the internet.
           .Azure ExpressRoute provides a dedicated private connectivity to Azure that doesn't travel over the internet.
                ExpressRoute is useful for environments where you need greater bandwidth and even higher levels of security.

Azure DNS leverages the scope and scale of Microsoft Azure to provide numerous benefits, including:
                     . Reliability and performance - provide resiliency and high availability.                    
                     . Security - provides features such as:
                                                           1. Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) to control who has access to specific
                                                              actions for your organization.
                                                           2. Activity logs to monitor how a user in your organization modified a resource or
                                                              to find an error when troubleshooting.
                                                           3. Resource locking to lock a subscription, resource group, or resource.
                                                              Locking prevents other users in your organization from accidentally deleting or
                                                              modifying critical resources.
                     . Ease of Use - Azure DNS can manage DNS records for your Azure services and provide DNS for your external resources as well 
                     . Customizable virtual networks - This feature allows you to use your own custom domain names in your private virtual networks                    
                     . Alias records - You can use an alias record set to refer to an Azure resource, such as an Azure public IP address,
                                        an Azure Traffic Manager profile, or an Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN) endpoint.

Important*
( You can't use Azure DNS to buy a domain name. For an annual fee, you can buy a domain name by using App Service domains
or a third-party domain name registrar. Once purchased, your domains can be hosted in Azure DNS for record management. )



                                 ---------------------------------------------------------
AZURE ARCHITECTURE AND SERVICES 
STORAGE SERVICE 


Azure Storage always stores multiple copies of your data so that it's protected from planned and unplanned events such as transient hardware failures,
             network or power outages, and natural disasters.
             
Redundancy ensures that your storage account meets its availability and durability targets even in the face of failures.
These are list of redundancy options :
     .Locally redundant storage (LRS) - replicates your data three times within a single data center in the primary region.
                                      - lowest-cost redundancy option and offers the least durability compared to other options.           
     .Geo-redundant storage (GRS) -1. copies your data synchronously three times within a single physical location in the primary region using LRS
                                   2. copies your data asynchronously to a single physical location in the secondary region (region pair) using LRS
     .Geo-zone-redundant storage (GZRS) - combines the high availability provided by redundancy across availability zones with protection from regional
                                          outages provided by geo-replication.     
     .Zone-redundant storage (ZRS) - replicates your Azure Storage data synchronously across three Azure availability zones in the primary region.           
     .Read-access geo-zone-redundant storage (RA-GZRS) -
     .Read-access geo-redundant storage (RA-GRS)

The Azure Storage platform includes the following data services:
   Azure Blobs: A massively scalable object store for text and binary data. Also includes support for big data analytics through Data Lake Storage Gen2.
   Azure Files: Managed file shares for cloud or on-premises deployments.
   Azure Queues: A messaging store for reliable messaging between application components.
   Azure Disks: Block-level storage volumes for Azure VMs.

Azure Storage service benefits : 
Durable and highly available Redundancy - ensures that your data is safe if transient hardware failures occur. 
                                          Data replicated in this way remains highly available if an unexpected outage occurs.
Secure - All data written to an Azure storage account is encrypted by the service. 
Scalable -  Storage is designed to be massively scalable to meet the data storage and performance needs of today's applications.
Managed -  handles hardware maintenance, updates, and critical issues for you.
Accessible - Data in Azure Storage is accessible from anywhere in the world over HTTP or HTTPS. 

Some Azure storage services :
    Blob storage, data lake storage Gen2, azure files, queue storage, table storage

BLOB Storage(Binary large object)- object storage solution for the cloud. It can store massive amounts of unstructured (no restriction of data type) data, 
                           such as images, videos, audio, backups, and documents.

Blob storage is ideal for:
           Serving images or documents directly to a browser.
           Storing files for distributed access.
           Streaming video and audio.
           Storing data for backup and restore, disaster recovery, and archiving.
           Storing data for analysis by an on-premises or Azure-hosted service.


Azure Storage offers different access tiers for your blob storage, helping you store object data in the most cost-effective manner. 
The available access tiers include:
           Hot access tier: Optimized for storing data that is accessed frequently 
                            (for example, images for your website).
           Cool access tier: Optimized for data that is infrequently accessed and stored for at least 30 days 
                            (for example, invoices for your customers).
           Archive access tier: Appropriate for data that is rarely accessed and stored for at least 180 days, with flexible latency requirements
                    (for example, long-term backups).

Azure Files is a feature of Azure Blob Storage that allows you to create a fully managed file share in the cloud, using the 
                 standard SMB protocol (Server Message Block) or NFS (Network File System) protocol.

Azure file key benefits :
Shared access: you can seamlessly replace your on-premises file shares with Azure file shares without worrying about application compatibility.
Fully managed: Azure file shares can be created without the need to manage hardware or an OS.
Scripting and tooling: PowerShell cmdlets and Azure CLI can be used to create, mount, and manage Azure file shares as part of the administration of 
                       Azure applications. 
Resiliency: Azure Files has been built from the ground up to always be available. 
Familiar programmability: Applications running in Azure can access data in the share via file system I/O APIs. 
                          Developers can therefore leverage their existing code and skills to migrate existing applications.
                          In addition to System IO APIs, you can use Azure Storage Client Libraries or the Azure Storage REST API.

Azure Queue Storage is a service for storing large numbers of messages

Azure Migrate is a service that helps you migrate from an on-premises environment to the cloud. 
Migrate functions as a hub to help you manage the assessment and migration of your on-premises datacenter to Azure and also provides :
          - Unified migration platform: A single portal to start, run, and track your migration to Azure.
          - Range of tools: A range of tools for assessment and migration.
          - Assessment and migration: In the Azure Migrate hub, you can assess and migrate your on-premises infrastructure to Azure.

Azure Data Box is a physical migration service that helps transfer large amounts of data in a quick, inexpensive, and reliable way.
AzCopy is a command-line utility that you can use to copy blobs or files to or from your storage account. 
Azure Storage Explorer is a standalone app that provides a graphical interface to manage files and blobs in your Azure Storage Account.
Azure File Sync is a tool that lets you centralize your file shares in Azure Files and keep the flexibility, performance, and 
                compatibility of a Windows file server

IDENTITY, ACCESS, AND SECURITY 


Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) is a directory service that enables you to sign in and access both Microsoft cloud applications and cloud applications
                                  that you develop.
                                  its a centralized database for storing and managing information about users, computers, and other resources in
                                  network environment.
Azure AD can detect sign-in attempts from unexpected locations or unknown devices.
Azure AD is used by : 
                     IT administrators
                     App developers 
                     Users 
                     Online service subscribers 
                     
Azure AD provides services such as:
        Authentication: This includes verifying identity to access applications and resources
        Single sign-on: Single sign-on (SSO) enables you to remember only one username and one password to access multiple applications.
        Application management: You can manage your cloud and on-premises apps by using Azure AD. 
        Device management: Azure AD supports the registration of devices. Registration enables devices to be managed through tools like Microsoft Intune. 

Azure AD Connect synchronizes user identities between on-premises Active Directory and Azure AD.
Azure Active Directory Domain Services is a service that provides managed domain services such as domain join, group policy, LDAP, 
                                       and Kerberos/NTLM authentication for Azure AD joined devices.

Authentication is the process of establishing the identity of a person, service, or device.
               It requires the person, service, or device to provide some type of credential to prove who they are. 

Single sign-on (SSO) enables a user to sign in one time and use that credential to access multiple resources and applications from different providers.

Multifactor authentication is the process of prompting a user for an extra form (or factor) of identification during the sign-in process. 
           These elements fall into three categories:
                      Something the user knows – this might be a challenge question.
                      Something the user has – this might be a code that's sent to the user's mobile phone.
                      Something the user is – this is typically some sort of biometric property, such as a fingerprint or face scan.

Azure AD Multi-Factor Authentication is a Microsoft service that provides multifactor authentication capabilities. 

Microsoft global Azure and Azure Government offer the following three passwordless authentication options that integrate with
    Azure Active Directory (Azure AD):
           Windows Hello for Business - biometric authentication feature in Windows 10 that allows users to log in to their devices using facial recognition, 
                                        fingerprint scanning, or a PIN, providing a more secure and convenient alternative to traditional passwords.         
           Microsoft Authenticator app - a mobile app that provides multi-factor authentication for signing in to Microsoft services and other supported apps 
                                         and websites, using push notifications, biometric verification, and/or time-based one-time passcodes.           
           FIDO2 security keys - a form of hardware-based authentication that uses public key cryptography to provide secure, passwordless authentication
                                 to websites and other online services that support the FIDO2 standard.

Azure External Identities allows you to manage the identities of external users, such as customers, partners, and suppliers, who need access to 
                          your organization's applications and resources.

The following capabilities make up External Identities:
           Buisiness to business (B2B) collaboration -  Collaborate with external users by letting them use their preferred identity to sign-in to your
                                                        Microsoft applications or other enterprise applications           
           B2B direct connect - Establish a mutual, two-way trust with another Azure AD organization for seamless collaboration.           
           Azure AD business to cutomer (B2C) - allows businesses to manage and authenticate the identities of their customers, allowing them to 
                                                easily and securely provide access to their applications and services while maintaining control over 
                                                their customer's identity data.

Conditional Access is a tool that Azure Active Directory uses to allow (or deny) access to resources based on identity signals. 
                   These signals include who the user is, where the user is, and what device the user is requesting access from.

Azure Role-based access control (RBAC) allows administrators to manage access to Azure resources by defining roles and then assigning those roles
                       to users, groups, or service principals, providing a simple and secure way to manage and control access to Azure resources.

Role-based access control is applied to a scope, which is a resource or set of resources that this access applies to.
Scopes include:
           A management group (a collection of multiple subscriptions).
           A single subscription.
           A resource group.
           A single resource.

Azure RBAC is hierarchical, in that when you grant access at a parent scope, those permissions are inherited by all child scopes. 
For example:
      When you assign the Owner role to a user at the management group scope, that user can manage everything in all subscriptions within 
                   the management group.
      When you assign the Reader role to a group at the subscription scope, the members of that group can view every resource group and resource within 
                   the subscription.

Azure RBAC is enforced on any action that's initiated against an Azure resource that passes through Azure Resource Manager. 
Resource Manager is a management service that provides a way to organize and secure your cloud resources.

Zero Trust is a security model that assumes the worst case scenario and protects resources with that expectation

To address this new world of computing, Microsoft highly recommends the Zero Trust security model, 
 which is based on these guiding principles:
           Verify explicitly - Always authenticate and authorize based on all available data points.
           Use least privilege access - Limit user access with Just-In-Time and Just-Enough-Access (JIT/JEA), 
                                        risk-based adaptive policies, and data protection.
           Assume breach - Minimize blast radius and segment access. Verify end-to-end encryption. 



            ---------------------------------------------------------
DESCRIBE AZURE MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE 

     COST MANAGEMENT IN AZURE


That OpEx cost can be impacted by many factors. Some of the impacting factors are:
     .Resource type - a manageable item that represents an azure service. 
     .Consumption - cloud payment model where you pay for the resources that you use during a billing cycle                                                      
     .Maintenance - process that includes updates, patches, and infrastructure improvements to keep Azure services running smoothly and securely.                                               
     .Geography - costs can vary based on the location of the data center hosting the service, taxes, and compliance regulations, tax,
                  and network traffic(cost of transfering service depending on location distance).     
     .Subscription type - Some Azure subscription types also include usage allowances, which affect costs.     
     .Azure Marketplace - lets you purchase resources from third-party vendors which affects operational expenditure 


The pricing calculator and the total cost of ownership (TCO) calculator are two calculators that help you understand potential Azure expenses. 

-Pricing calculator - designed to give you an estimate cost for provisoing resources in azure. 
                    - for impormation purpose only, price estimates.Nothing is provisioned when you add resources to calculator
-Total cost of ownership calculator - designed to help you compare the cost for running na op-premises infanstructure  compared to an azure cloud
                                       infrastructure.
 The main difference is pricing calculator allows you to estimate the cost of using a specific service, whereas TCO helps you estimate the overal cost
  ownership of serveice or product compared to other infanstructure over a certain period of time. 

Cost Management provides the ability to quickly check Azure resource costs, create alerts based on resource spend, and create budgets 
                that can be used to automate management of resources.
Cost analysis  provides a quick visual for your Azure costs that include different filtering system like billing cycle, region, resource.
Cost alert is a trigger that notifies when cost of resource exceed a specified threshold.
            There are three main alerts :
                   .Budget alerts - notify you when spending reaches or exceeds the amount defined in the alert condition of the budget.                   
                   .Credit alerts - notify you when your Azure credit monetary commitments (set amout of money user can spend on services) are consumed.                    
                   .Department spending quota alert - notify you when department spending reaches a fixed threshold of the quota.


One way to organize related resources is to place them in their own subscriptions.
Another way is by Resource tags to help organize resources. Tags provide extra information, or metadata, about your resources.
This metadata is useful for:
           .Resource management - Tags enable you to locate and act on resources that are associated with specific workloads, 
                                 environments, business units, and owners.
           .Cost management and optimization - Tags enable you to group resources so that you can report on costs, allocate internal cost centers,
                                 track budgets, and forecast estimated cost.
           .Operations management - Tags enable you to group resources according to how critical their availability is to your business. 
                                 This grouping helps you formulate service-level agreements (SLAs). An SLA is an uptime or performance guarantee
                                 between you and your users.
           .Security - Tags enable you to classify data by its security level, such as public or confidential.
           .Governance and regulatory compliance - Tags enable you to identify resources that align with governance or 
                                 regulatory compliance requirements
                                 For example, you might require that all resources be tagged with an owner or department name.
           .Workload optimization and automation - Tags can help you visualize all of the resources that participate in complex deployments.
                                 For example, you might tag a resource with its associated workload or application name and use software such 
                                 as Azure DevOps to perform automated tasks on those resources.

You can add, modify, or delete resource tags through Windows PowerShell, the Azure CLI, Azure Resource Manager templates,
    the REST API, or the Azure portal.


DESCRIBE FEATURES AND TOOLS IN AZURE FOR GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE 


Azure Blueprints lets you standardize cloud subscription or environment deployments.
Instead of having to configure features like Azure Policy for each new subscription, with Azure Blueprints you can define repeatable settings 
            and policies that are applied as new subscriptions are created. 

Artifacts refer to the files and packages that are needed to build, test, and deploy software applications.
Artifacts are also the components in a blueprint. 

Artifacts can also contain one or more parameters that you can configure. 

Azure Blueprints deploy a new environment based on all of the requirements, settings, and configurations of the associated artifacts.
Artifacts can include things such as:
                                 Role assignments
                                 Policy assignments
                                 Azure Resource Manager templates
                                 Resource groups


With Azure Blueprints, the relationship between the blueprint definition (what should be deployed)
                       and the blueprint assignment (what was deployed) is preserved. 


PURPOSE OF AZURE POLICY 

Azure Policy is a service in Azure that enables you to create, assign, and manage policies that control or audit your resources.

Azure Policy initiative is a way of grouping related policies together. 


PURPOSE OF RESOURCE LOCKS 

A resource lock prevents resources from being accidentally deleted or changed.

There are two types of resource locks in Azure:
           Read-Only Locks: This type of lock prevents unauthorized changes to the resource, but allows read access to it. 
                            This is useful when you want to prevent accidental deletions or modifications to critical resources.
           Delete Locks: This type of lock prevents deletion of the resource.
                            This is useful when you have critical resources that you want to protect from accidental deletion.

PURPOSE OF THE SERVICE TRUST PORTAL 


The Microsoft Service Trust Portal is a portal that provides access to various content, tools, and other resources about Microsoft security,
                      privacy, and compliance practices.



TOOLS FOR MANAGING AND DEPLOYING AZURE RESOURCES 


Azure provides multiple tools for managing your environment, including the:
                      Azure portal
                      Azure PowerShell
                      Azure Command Line Interface (CLI)


Azure portal is a web-based, unified console that provides an alternative to command-line tools.
With Azure portal you can : 
                           .Build, manage, and monitor everything from simple web apps to complex cloud deployments
                           .Create custom dashboards for an organized view of resources
                           .Configure accessibility options for an optimal experience
                           
Azure Cloud Shell is a browser-based shell tool that allows you to create, configure, and manage Azure resources using a shell.

Azure PowerShell is a shell with which developers, DevOps, and IT professionals can run commands called command-lets (cmdlets). 
It allows administrators to perform various tasks, such as creating and managing Azure resources, automating repetitive tasks, and managing deployments,
          using scripts and commands in the PowerShell environment.
          
Azure CLI is functionally equivalent to Azure PowerShell, with the primary difference being the syntax of commands.
         While Azure PowerShell uses PowerShell commands, the Azure CLI uses Bash commands.


Azure Arc is a service that allows organizations to manage on-premises, multi-cloud, and edge resources as if they were native Azure resources. 
It enables IT administrators to manage and monitor their non-Azure resources, such as Linux and Windows servers, Kubernetes clusters, and applications,
     using Azure management and security tools.
Azure Arc allows you to manage the following resource types hosted outside of Azure:
                      Servers
                      Kubernetes clusters
                      Azure data services
                      SQL Server
                      Virtual machines 

Azure Resource Manager (ARM) is the deployment and management service for Azure. 
  It provides a management layer that enables you to create, update, and delete resources in your Azure account.

Azure Resource Manager templates are JSON-based files that define the infrastructure and configuration of Azure resources. 
They allow you to automate the deployment and configuration of resources in Azure, making it easier to manage and maintain complex deployments.

Some of ARM benefits include:

Declarative syntax: ARM templates allow you to create and deploy an entire Azure infrastructure declaratively.
Repeatable results: Repeatedly deploy your infrastructure throughout the development lifecycle and have confidence your resources are deployed
                    in a consistent manner.
Orchestration: Azure Resource Manager orchestrates the deployment of interdependent resources, so they're created in the correct order
Modular files: You can break your templates into smaller, reusable components and link them together at deployment time. 
Extensibility: With deployment scripts, you can add PowerShell or Bash scripts to your templates.


            ---------------------------------------------------------
 DESCRIBE MONITORING TOOLS IN AZURE 
 
 
Azure Advisor evaluates your Azure resources and makes recommendations to help improve reliability, security, and performance, achieve operational 
              excellence, and reduce costs.
            
 When using Azure portal, Advisor dashboard displays personlized recommendations.
 The recommendations are divided into five catagories :
 
           Reliability is used to ensure and improve the continuity of your business-critical applications.
           Security is used to detect threats and vulnerabilities that might lead to security breaches.
           Performance is used to improve the speed of your applications.
           Operational Excellence is used to help you achieve process and workflow efficiency, resource manageability, and deployment best practices.
           Cost is used to optimize and reduce your overall Azure spending.
            
            
Azure Monitor is a platform for collecting data on your resources, analyzing that data, visualizing the information, and even acting on the results.
Azure Log Analytics is the tool in the Azure portal where you’ll write and run log queries on the data gathered by Azure Monitor.
Azure Monitor Alerts are an automated way to stay informed when Azure Monitor detects a threshold being crossed.
Application Insights monitors your web applications and is capable of monitoring applications that are running in Azure, on-premises, or 
           in a different cloud environment.            
            
            
            
------------------------------------------------------------            
            
            
 Scalability allows you to manully increase or decrease resources to meet predictable workload 
 Elasticity automatically increase or decrease resources to meet spikes and drops in demand 
 Agility controls speed and flexibility in allocation and deallocation of required resources 
 
Azure functions include the abstraction of servers, infrastructure, and operating systems 
Container instances is a lightweigh, birualized application environmnet 
            
            
            
                                             ---------------------------------------------------------

A-Z 900 FINAL EXAM REVIEW            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            




